DOCSP-46984: Upcoming features (#19)
mongodb/docs-django: source/limitations-upcoming.txt

.. _django-limitations:

=================================

> Limitations and Upcoming Features

Reviewer: Q: what was the rationale behind combining these topics in this page?
S: For a couple of reasons, I think you should break them up.

- {+django-odm+} does not support the ``migrate --fake-initial`` command.

.. _django-limitations-async:

Asynchronous Limitations
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

{+django-odm+} has not been tested for support of the asynchronous functionality of
the Django API.

.. _django-limitations-data:

Data Types
~~~~~~~~~~

{+django-odm+} does not have a custom ``Field`` class for the ``BSONRegExp``
data type. Instead, use the ``CharField`` class.

.. _django-limitations-performance:

Performance
~~~~~~~~~~~

The engineering team is prioritizing feature development for the Public Preview
release of {+django-odm+}. Because of this, you might notice performance
limitations with certain workloads. If you encounter any performance issues,
please report them as shown in the :ref:`Issues & Help <django-issues-and-help>`
guide. You can also share your feedback on the `Drivers Feedback Forum
<https://feedback.mongodb.com/forums/924286-drivers?category_id=370732>`__.

Upcoming Features
-----------------

In this section, you can learn about the following
types of {+framework+} and MongoDB features that 
General Availability (GA) and post-GA {+django-odm+} releases

> will likely introduce:

Reviewer: Q: is there a better way to phrase this to be more authoritative? What's the limitation to just saying these features will be supported?

Author: None of these features are guaranteed, so I was asked to use non-authoritative language

- :ref:`django-upcoming-mongodb`
- :ref:`django-upcoming-models`
- :ref:`django-upcoming-management`
- :ref:`django-upcoming-third-party`
- :ref:`django-upcoming-variables`
- :ref:`django-upcoming-async`

.. _django-upcoming-mongodb:

MongoDB Features
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

We plan to support the following MongoDB features in
the upcoming GA release:

- Creating Vector Search, Atlas Search, and geospatial indexes

> - Performing Vector Search, Atlas Search, and geospatial queries

Reviewer 2: This could be misleading. We should either remove it or change the language to say "improved" or "through the Django API"

Reviewer 3: Performing Vector Search, Atlas Search, and geospatial queries directly through the Django API

> - Creating Vector Search, Atlas Search, and geospatial indexes
> - Performing Vector Search, Atlas Search, and geospatial queries

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Programmatic management of Vector Search, Atlas Search, and geospatial indexes
- Vector Search, Atlas Search, and geospatial queries
```

> - Encrypting data by using Queryable Encryption and Client-side Field Level Encryption

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Queryable Encryption and Client-side Field Level Encryption
```

> - Running database transactions
> - Storing Django's cached data in the database

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Database transactions
- Storage of {+framework+}'s cached data in the database
```

We plan to support the following MongoDB features in
future post-GA releases:

> - Using GridFS to store large files

Reviewer: S: modify list to be nouns as you call them features instead of actions

   the following resources:

   - :atlas:`Atlas Vector Search </atlas-vector-search/vector-search-overview/>` in the Atlas documentation
   - :atlas:`Atlas Search </atlas-search>` in the Atlas documentation
   - :manual:`Geospatial Queries </geospatial-queries/>` in the {+mdb-server+}
     manual
   - :manual:`In-Use Encryption </core/security-in-use-encryption/>` in the {+mdb-server+}
     manual
   - :manual:`Transactions </core/transactions/>` in the {+mdb-server+}
     manual
   - :manual:`GridFS </core/gridfs/>` in the {+mdb-server+}
     manual
   - :manual:`Change Streams </changeStreams/>` in the {+mdb-server+}
     manual

.. _django-upcoming-models:

Model Features
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

We plan to support the following model features in
the upcoming GA release:

- Creating arrays of embedded documents
- Creating polymorphic embedded documents and arrays
- Applying changes to the schema of embedded models to
  ``EmbeddedModelField`` values
- Creating multiple models within a collection
- Improving form representation in embedded models

We plan to support the following model features in
future post-GA releases:

> - Interacting with ``JSONField`` values without the limitations on ``Q`` object queries and

Reviewer 2: Let's remove this. We have not promised this.

  ``None`` value filters listed in the :ref:`Field <django-limitations-models-fields>` limitations
  section of this guide
- Using a custom ``Field`` class for the ``BSONRegExp`` data type

.. _django-upcoming-management:

Django Management Command Features
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

We plan to support the following Django commands in
the upcoming GA release:

- ``dumpdata``
- ``loaddata``

> We plan to support the following commands in

Reviewer 2: We can remove these two. We may not commit to adding these.

.. tip::

   To learn more about the MongoDB features mentioned in this section, see
   the following resources:

   - :atlas:`Atlas Vector Search </atlas-vector-search/vector-search-overview/>` in the Atlas documentation
   - :atlas:`Atlas Search </atlas-search>` in the Atlas documentation
   - :manual:`Geospatial Queries </geospatial-queries/>` in the {+mdb-server+}
     manual
   - :manual:`In-Use Encryption </core/security-in-use-encryption/>` in the {+mdb-server+}
     manual
   - :manual:`Transactions </core/transactions/>` in the {+mdb-server+}
     manual
   - :manual:`GridFS </core/gridfs/>` in the {+mdb-server+}
     manual
   - :manual:`Change Streams </changeStreams/>` in the {+mdb-server+}
     manual

.. _django-upcoming-models:

Model Features
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

We plan to support the following model features in
the GA release:

- Arrays of embedded documents
- Polymorphic embedded documents and arrays
- Application of changes to the embedded model schema to
  ``EmbeddedModelField`` values
- Multiple models within a collection
- Improved form representation in embedded models

We plan to support the following model features in
future post-GA releases:

> - Custom ``Field`` class for the ``BSONRegExp`` data type

Reviewer: s: consider converting list of 1 into a sentence

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

We plan to support the following MongoDB features in
the upcoming GA release:

- Creating Vector Search, Atlas Search, and geospatial indexes
- Performing Vector Search, Atlas Search, and geospatial queries
- Encrypting data by using Queryable Encryption and Client-side Field Level Encryption
- Running database transactions
- Storing Django's cached data in the database

We plan to support the following MongoDB features in
future post-GA releases:

- Using GridFS to store large files
- Opening change streams to monitor your data
- Specifying schema validation

> - Using specialized aggregation operators

Reviewer 3: "Using specialized aggregation operators" - Let's remove this for now.
